Okay.
So in order to learn the new composition API, what we're going to do is refactor an old component so
that instead of using the options API, it's going to use the new composition API.
And the component that we're going to target is the accordion component.
Now, as a reminder, the accordion component is this one right here.
In fact, that appears three times.
The accordion component is the one that enables the expandability and collapse ability of the content
that we see here.
So this thing right here and this thing right here, these are all examples of the accordion component.
And if I take you back to this code.
And I open up the accordion view component.
You can see here it is.
It's a basic div.
We have a click event that invokes an open method.
That open method right here alters and is open data property right here and that determines whether
the accordion is open or not, depending on whether it is open or closed.
We present a different font awesome icon, which is a computed property right here and then right here.
We also have the slot content which allows the parent to specify what to place in this section of the
component, and we only reveal that expanded portion of the accordion component if the is open data
property is set to true.
All right.
So the reason this is a really good component to start with is because it's relatively small in its
scope, but it still utilizes a lot of the old options API features.
It has a prop section and as data it has computed properties and it has methods and we're going to see
how we're going to be able to replace all of these old options API concepts using the new syntax in
the composition API.
All right.
So to begin, as I mentioned in the previous lesson, we're going to need a single method called setup.
And that's where we're going to place all of our setup or all of our initialization logic for this according
to component.
So a lot of the logic that we currently have captured across all these different categories, we're
going to pack that all into setup.
We're going to take it incrementally one step at a time.
So the first thing I'd like to do is to comment out everything we have here except for name.
The name property is going to stay.
The rest we're going to comment out and then we're slowly going to replace all of these old features
with the new way of doing things in the composition API.
Right?
So as I mentioned, we're now going to write all of our new logic within a single method called setup.
So I'm going to write the setup method.
It must be called this.
I'm going to provide my method of parentheses and then.
My method body.
All right.
So this is where all of our new logic will go.
Now, view is going to execute this setup method only once.
It's going to do that before it creates the component, but after it deals with the props.
We'll talk more about that in a later lesson.
But the key idea is it is going to run this setup method before it actually puts your component on the
screen.
Another important thing to note here is within this setup method, we can no longer use the this keyword.
So notice here, for example, in the computed property, we're using this to access our piece of data
called is open.
Same thing in our method right here.
We no longer have access to the this keyword.
We are not able to use it yet.
And the technical reason for this is because this usually refers to the current object in JavaScript,
the current reference.
But when the setup method is running, the current component doesn't fully exist yet, so we can't reference
it.
All right.
Another thing to note is that this setup method is going to run before the create, created and mounted
lifecycle hooks.
Now, this component doesn't utilize those lifecycle hooks, but that's just something to think about.
Basically, in summary, Vue is going to run the setup method once before everything in the component
kind of initializes and appears in your browser.
Okay.
So let's begin very slowly and then will build up incrementally over the course of the next couple lessons.
The next thing you should note is that in our setup method, we must always return an object.
And in this object, we're going to define the properties that we want to make available throughout
the HTML template.
All right.
So for example, if I were to define a property here like a of want equal to one and be equal to two
simply by returning an object like this from the setup method view is going to enable us to have properties
called A and B and they're going to be available to be used in the template.
So you can think of this as almost being equivalent to what we had in data right here or computed right
here.
As soon as we declare these properties in the return object, view is going to make them available in
our template.
So let's see a more practical example of this.
You'll notice on line eight we are outputting the value of something that has a name of header.
Right now, the way this component actually works is header is a prop that flows in from the parent.
It's it's a field which is a string that the parent component provides.
And it represents the text that appears at the top of the accordion.
So for now, let's pretend we we let's ignore that.
Let's pretend it doesn't exist and let's pretend header is just going to be a piece of text that exists
on this component.
So let's say we're going to have a header piece of text right here.
And what I'm going to do is create this header as a constant within my setup method.
So right here I'll just use plain JavaScript.
I'll define my header constant and I'll set it equal to be a string.
And let's say I do.
Cool title right here.
So because we return an object with a header property, that means that we're able to use the header
keyword anywhere in my template.
So right now we're going to render or interpolate the value of that header property right here in my
age three.
So what I expect to see when I go back to my browser is we should see the string value cool title displayed
right here.
All right.
So let me go to my browser.
And we'll get see on the left hand side here, everything works as expected.
We see it cool title three times because we've made that the text that we are displaying or interpolating
onto the screen using the double curly brace syntax.
All right.
So let's leave it off here.
We're going to continue chipping away at this over the next couple of lessons and building this component
up back to its original implementation.
But the key thing to remember from this lesson is in the new composition API, we must always define
a setup method in the script section in our component configuration object.
That set up method is going to return a plane JavaScript object, and any properties that we provide
inside that object are going to be available to be used in our template.
The one example we've seen so far is using them directly by interpolating them here as actual text for
the user to see.
But later on, we're going to see how we can also use them in other places, such as directives.
All right.
So lots more to cover.
And I will see you in the next lesson.